# Background

Virtual Network Embedding (VNE) is the process of mapping virtual network requests onto the physical network. VNE is a crucial aspect of network virtualization, where a physical network is partitioned into multiple virtual networks. Each virtual network request has its own set of requirements, such as bandwidth, processing power, and latency. These requirements must be satisfied while minimizing the overall cost of embedding virtual networks on the physical network.

Background:

The increasing demand for cloud computing and network virtualization has led to the need for efficient resource allocation and management techniques. VNE has emerged as a promising solution to address these challenges by allowing multiple virtual networks to coexist on a shared physical network.

Formulation:

The VNE problem can be formulated as an optimization problem, where the objective is to find a mapping of virtual network requests onto the physical network that minimizes the overall cost of embedding while meeting the constraints of each virtual network request. The cost of embedding can be defined in terms of various parameters, such as bandwidth, processing power, and latency. The constraints of each virtual network request can be defined in terms of the available resources on the physical network, such as the number of available nodes, links, and processing power.

Evaluation Metrics:

Several evaluation metrics are used to assess the performance of VNE algorithms. These metrics include:

Embedding Cost: The total cost of embedding all virtual network requests onto the physical network, including the cost of using links and nodes.

Resource Utilization: The extent to which the physical network resources are utilized after embedding virtual network requests.

Revenue: The amount of revenue generated by the VNE provider by embedding virtual network requests.

Scalability: The ability of the VNE algorithm to handle a large number of virtual network requests while maintaining acceptable performance.

Quality of Service (QoS): The extent to which the QoS requirements of virtual network requests are satisfied after embedding.

Embedding Time: The time taken to map all virtual network requests onto the physical network.